docs/USAGE.md, before:

# Instructions to run the application locally
1. Install [Java 8 or higher](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)
1. Download the latest gtfs-validator JAR file from our [Releases page](https://github.com/MobilityData/gtfs-validator/releases) or snapshot artifact from [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/MobilityData/gtfs-validator/actions?query=branch%3Amaster) or [Circle-CI Pipelines](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/MobilityData/gtfs-validator?branch=master)

## via cli-app
### Validate a locally stored GTFS dataset
Sample usage:

``` 
java -jar gtfs-validator-v2.0.jar --input relative/path/to/dataset --output relative/output/path --feed_name <name_of_the_feed> --threads <number_of_threads_to_use> 
```

...which will:
 1. Search for a GTFS dataset located at `relative/path/to/dataset`
 1. Validate the GTFS data and output the results to the directory located at `relative/output/path`. 
 1. Export the validation report to `JSON` by default. This folder will contain a single `.json` file with information related to the validation process. The validation report will be named as `report.json`. 

### Validate a GTFS dataset stored on a remote server
Sample usage:

``` 
java -jar gtfs-validator-v2.0.jar --url url/to/dataset --output relative/output/path --feed_name <name_of_the_feed> --threads <number_of_threads_to_use> --storage_directory input.zip
```

...which will:
 1. Download the GTFS feed at the URL `url/to/dataset` and name it `input.zip`  
 1. Validate the GTFS data and output the results to the directory located at `relative/output/path`. Validation results are exported to JSON by default.

## via GitHub Actions - run the validator on any gtfs archive available on a public url

1. Fork this repository. [Instructions to fork this repository](/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)
1. Open a PR on master within it
1. Edit the file `.github/workflows/end_to_end.yml` following instructions on lines 5, 43-45 and **push** on your PR branch
1. Name your branch from the agency/authority/publisher of the feed you are testing

You should now see the workflow `End to end / run-on-data` start automatically in your PR checks, running the validator on the dataset you just added. The validation report is collected as a run artifact in the Actions tab of your fork repository on GitHub.

If the workflow run crashes or something doesn't look right in the validation report json file, **please see the [Contributing page](/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) section, we may be able to help!**

Commit message:

apply suggestions from code review
- additional unit tests
- bump version numbers
- modify copyright headers
- change branch name in end-to-end workflow
- leverage v5.x of Apache HTTP client
- close closeables
- remove blank line
- modify logger config
- add config file for mockito

docs/USAGE.md, after:

# Instructions to run the application locally
1. Install [Java 8 or higher](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)
1. Download the latest gtfs-validator JAR file from our [Releases page](https://github.com/MobilityData/gtfs-validator/releases) or snapshot artifact from [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/MobilityData/gtfs-validator/actions?query=branch%3Amaster) or [Circle-CI Pipelines](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/MobilityData/gtfs-validator?branch=master)

## via cli-app
### Validate a locally stored GTFS dataset
Sample usage:

``` 
java -jar gtfs-validator-v2.0.jar --input relative/path/to/dataset --output relative/output/path --feed_name <name_of_the_feed> --threads <number_of_threads_to_use> 
```

...which will:
 1. Search for a GTFS dataset located at `relative/path/to/dataset`
 1. Validate the GTFS data and output the results to the directory located at `relative/output/path`. 
 1. Export the validation report to `JSON` by default. This folder will contain a single `.json` file with information related to the validation process. The validation report will be named as `report.json`. 

### Validate a GTFS dataset stored on a remote server
Sample usage:

``` 
java -jar gtfs-validator-v2.0.jar --url url/to/dataset --output relative/output/path --feed_name <name_of_the_feed> --threads <number_of_threads_to_use> --storage_directory input.zip
```

...which will:
 1. Download the GTFS feed at the URL `url/to/dataset` and name it `input.zip`  
 1. Validate the GTFS data and output the results to the directory located at `relative/output/path`. Validation results are exported to JSON by default.
Please note that since downloading will take time, we recommend validating repeatedly on a local file.

## via GitHub Actions - run the validator on any gtfs archive available on a public url

1. Fork this repository. [Instructions to fork this repository](/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)
1. Open a PR on master within it
1. Edit the file `.github/workflows/end_to_end.yml` following instructions on lines 5, 43-45 and **push** on your PR branch
1. Name your branch from the agency/authority/publisher of the feed you are testing

You should now see the workflow `End to end / run-on-data` start automatically in your PR checks, running the validator on the dataset you just added. The validation report is collected as a run artifact in the Actions tab of your fork repository on GitHub.

If the workflow run crashes or something doesn't look right in the validation report json file, **please see the [Contributing page](/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) section, we may be able to help!**
